OKTA-459961 Embedded SIW SPA Vue.js guide (#2986)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/sign-in-to-spa-embedded-widget/main/vue/basic-sign-in.md

Use the [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/) and the [Okta Vue SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-vue) libraries to simplify your component and route definitions.  Some routes require authentication in order to render and other don't. The following are some basic routes you need to configure for your app:

* A [default page](#default-page-route) to handle basic control of the app.
* A [login route](#login-route) to show the Sign-In Widget.
* A [callback route](#callback-route) to parse tokens after a redirect from Okta.
* A [protected route](#protected-route) for authenticated users to access protected content.

#### Default page route

> To create the default `/index` page, update the `src/App.vue` file to provide links to relevant locations in your app. You need to provide a `Login` link to render the Sign-In Widget, a `Logout` link to sign-out of your authenticated session, and links to authenticated pages by using the `authState` property (see [`authStateManager` in Auth JS SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#authstatemanager)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create the default `/index` page, update the `src/App.vue` file to provide links to relevant locations in your app. You need to provide a `Login` link to render the Sign-In Widget, a `Logout` link to sign-out of your authenticated session, and links to authenticated pages by using the `authState` property (see [`authStateManager` in the Auth JS SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#authstatemanager)).
```

> To create the default `/index` page, update the `src/App.vue` file to provide links to relevant locations in your app. You need to provide a `Login` link to render the Sign-In Widget, a `Logout` link to sign-out of your authenticated session, and links to authenticated pages by using the `authState` property (see [`authStateManager` in the Auth JS SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#authstatemanager)).

Author: ```suggestion
To create the default `/index` page, update the `src/App.vue` file to provide links to relevant locations in your app. You need to provide a `Login` link to render the Sign-In Widget, a `Logout` link to sign-out of your authenticated session, and links to authenticated pages by using the `authState` object (see [`authStateManager` in the Auth JS SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#authstatemanager)).
```

You can use the following condition to hide or show specific elements:

`v-if="authState && !authState.isAuthenticated"`

See the following `src/App.vue` file example:

```html
<template>
  <div id="nav">
    <router-link to="/">Home</router-link> |
    <router-link to="/about">About</router-link> |
    <router-link to="/login" v-if="authState && !authState.isAuthenticated">Login</router-link>
    <router-link to="/profile" v-if="authState && authState.isAuthenticated">Protected Profile<router-link>
    <button v-if="authState && authState.isAuthenticated" v-on:click="logout()">Logout</button>
  </div>
  <router-view/>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'app',
  methods: {
    async logout () {
      await this.$auth.signOut()
    }
  }
}
</script>

<style>

...

```

#### Login route

> This route hosts the Sign-In Widget and redirects if the user is already logged in. See the `Login` route component, specified in the `src/components/Login.vue` file, from [Create a Sign-In Widget container](#create-a-sign-in-widget-container).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This route hosts the Sign-In Widget and redirects if the user is already signed in. See the `Login` route component, specified in the `src/components/Login.vue` file, from [Create a Sign-In Widget container](#create-a-sign-in-widget-container).
```

See how the callback route component is called from the route definition file (`src/router/index.js`) in the [Connect the routes](#connect-the-routes) section.

#### Protected route

Create a protected route that is only available to users with a valid `accessToken`:

* You can provide access to a protected route when the `requiresAuth` metadata is added in the [route definition](#connect-the-routes).

  This snippet from the `src/router/index.js` router file provides access to the `/profile` component only if `requiresAuth` metadata is true:

  ```js
  {
      path: '/profile',
      component: ProfileComponent,
      meta: {
        requiresAuth: true
      }
    }
  ```

* You can use the `authState.isAuthenticated` property in the [default route](#default-page-route) to determine if you need to show a protected element.

  This snippet from the `App.vue` file provides access to the `/profile` component only if `authState.isAuthenticated` is true:

  ```html

>   <router-link to="/profile" v-if="authState && authState.isAuthenticated">Protected Profile<router-link>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <router-link to="/profile" v-if="authState && authState.isAuthenticated">Protected Profile</router-link>
```

  ```

> **Note**: The `authState.isAuthenticated` property is true if both `accessToken` and `idToken` are valid.

> In this protected `/profile` component example, the `src/components/Profile.vue` file is created to show basic information from the ID token. ID token information can be retrieved by using the [`$auth`](https://github.com/okta/okta-vue#auth) instance from the Okta Vue SDK and calling the [`$auth.getUser()`](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#getuser) function from the Okta Auth JS SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this protected `/profile` component example, the `src/components/Profile.vue` file is created to show basic information from the ID token. Retrieve ID token information using the [`$auth`](https://github.com/okta/okta-vue#auth) instance from the Okta Vue SDK and calling the [`$auth.getUser()`](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#getuser) function from the Okta Auth JS SDK.
```

      </i>
      My User Profile (ID Token Claims)
    </h1>
    <p>
      This route is protected with the <code>onAuthRequired</code>, navigation guard which will ensure that this page cannot be accessed until you have authenticated.
    </p>
    <table class="ui table">
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>Claim</th>
          <th>Value</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr v-for="(claim, index) in claims" :key="index">
          <td>{{claim.claim}}</td>
          <td :id="'claim-' + claim.claim">{{claim.value}}</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'Profile',
  data () {
    return {
      claims: []
    }
  },
  async created () {
    this.claims = await Object.entries(await this.$auth.getUser()).map(entry => ({ claim: entry[0], value: entry[1] }))
  }
}
</script>
```

> **Note**: You can extend the set of claims by modifying the Sign-In Widget [scopes](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#scopes) settings to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#scope-values).

### Connect the routes

> This route definition example uses the [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/) and the [Okta Vue SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-vue) in the `src/router/index.js` file. Notice that the `requiresAuth` metadata needs to be true for protected routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This route definition example uses the [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/) and the [Okta Vue SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-vue) in the `src/router/index.js` file. Notice that the `requiresAuth` metadata must be true for protected routes.
```

You can use the following condition to hide or show specific elements:

`v-if="authState && !authState.isAuthenticated"`

See the following `src/App.vue` file example:

```html
<template>
  <div id="nav">
    <router-link to="/">Home</router-link> |
    <router-link to="/about">About</router-link> |
    <router-link to="/login" v-if="authState && !authState.isAuthenticated">Login</router-link>
    <router-link to="/profile" v-if="authState && authState.isAuthenticated">Protected Profile<router-link>
    <button v-if="authState && authState.isAuthenticated" v-on:click="logout()">Logout</button>
  </div>
  <router-view/>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'app',
  methods: {
    async logout () {
      const publicPath = this.$route.href.replace(new RegExp(this.$route.fullPath + '$'), '');

>       await this.$auth.signOut({ postLogoutRedirectUri: `${window.location.origin}${publicPath}` })

Reviewer 2: nit: `postLogoutRedirectUri ` won't be needed for this guide, it's added to handle heroku deployment path.

you can just use
```
async logout () {
  await this.$auth.signOut()
}
```
